---
title: September 4th Hack Night Update
author: Kaleb Clark
layout: post
permalink: /september-4th-hack-night-update/
main_image:
  - 
categories:
  - blog
tags:
  - Hack Nights
---
**Attendance**: 6

**Topic 1: Project Management software for Projects.**

We spent most of the meetup time discussing a new infrastructure project to help us manage all of the projects we are currently working on, have deployed, or are just on a wish list. The discussion was mostly around the fact that there are many open source project management solutions available to use, and how we could possibly incorporate these existing solutions VS. build something ourselves. After reviewing our requirements for project management needs, we saw that the feature set that we would like to use would be across several platforms. We would like to keep it as simple as possible, and not have volunteers manage several logins for each feature.

We would like to build this project around oAuth API to github, as almost every project we have will be associated with a github repository. By utilizing the github API in our project, we would have direct access to repository issue database, wiki&#8217;s and the code repo itself, and we would not have to reinvent the wheel of code, which we love.

**Topic 2: Website Priorities**

We moved the code4sac website to the top of the priority list. We need this up and running for topic 1 & 3 to be completed. While we are having a blast working on the adopt-a-hydrant and budget projects, we really need to have this core infrastructure together.

Deadline: Have website up on public host before next meetup (Wednesday, Sept 12th)

**Topic 3: Meetup information delivery and onboarding process.**

As new members show up to our meetups, we spend quite a bit of time explaining each individual project, what we do, who we are, and who/what Code for America is. (And sometimes, WHY we do it, and why they are not going to get paid&#8230;) We need to streamline this process so we can spend more time coding! We decided that on the first meetup of every month, we will have one of our Captains, or a volunteer dedicate time to explain the items mentioned above. As well as generate a post (such as this one), which will describe what that meeting was about, as well as standups from each member that has an update on a sprint.

We also ate pizza.

**Standups**: (we did not actually do standups at this meeting, but for the sake of common formats, I will summarize)

Andy / Hailey: working on the website, adding content, cleaning up CSS / JS and making the theme beautiful and functional.

Emma / Kaleb: Making some progress with the Adopt-A-Thing sacramento-dev branch, adding support for multiple &#8220;things&#8221; on a single deployment of the adopt-a-hydrant framework.

Jay: Making progress on the budget project.